Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7 (#2983)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/compatibility-guide-17.md

> ****[//]: # (title: Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[//]: # (title: Compatibility guide for Kotlin 1.7)
```

warnings, this document summarizes them all, providing a complete reference for migration from Kotlin 1.6 to Kotlin 1.7.

## Basic terms

In this document we introduce several kinds of compatibility:

- _source_: source-incompatible change stops code that used to compile fine (without errors or warnings) from compiling
  anymore
- _binary_: two binary artifacts are said to be binary-compatible if interchanging them doesn't lead to loading or
  linkage errors
- _behavioral_: a change is said to be behavioral-incompatible if the same program demonstrates different behavior
  before and after applying the change

Remember that those definitions are given only for pure Kotlin. Compatibility of Kotlin code from the other languages
perspective
(for example, from Java) is out of the scope of this document.

## Language

<!--
### Title

> **Issue**: [KT-NNNNN](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-NNNNN)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**:
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.5.20: warning
> - 1.7.0: report an error

> -->

Reviewer: Do you want to keep this template?

Author: Yes, it would be very handy for further updates and next version compatibility guides

### Make safe call result always nullable

> **Issue**: [KT-46860](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-46860)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.7 will consider the type of safe call result always nullable, even when the receiver of the safe call is non-nullable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.7 will consider the type of safe call result always nullable, even when the receiver of the safe call is non-nullable
```

>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>

> > - \<1.3: report a warning on unnecessary safe call on non-nullable receivers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - \<1.3: report a warning on an unnecessary safe call on non-nullable receivers
```

> > - 1.6.20: warn additionally that the result of unnecessary safe call will change its type in the next version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.6.20: warn additionally that the result of an unnecessary safe call will change its type in the next version
```

> > - 1.7.0: change the type of safe call result to nullable,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.7.0: change the type of safe call result to nullable,
```

Author: As always, this trailing space is needed to have a soft break before the next line

Reviewer: Do you use our documentation plugin? Its local preview shows that these trailing spaces don't make a line break, but in fact leave no space between the comma and the flag name
If it actually works correct on staging, I don't mind these extra spaces

Author: Hmm, it is supposed to work this way in markdown. What is the way then to insert a line break in webhelp md dialect?

> `-XXLanguage:-SafeCallsAreAlwaysNullable` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.7 behavior

### Prohibit the delegation of super calls to an abstract superclass member

> **Issues**: [KT-45508](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-45508), [KT-49017](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-49017), [KT-38078](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-38078)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
> 
> **Short summary**: Kotlin will report a compile error when an explicit or implicit super call is delegated 

> > to an _abstract_ member of the superclass, even if there’s a default implementation in a super interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> to an _abstract_ member of the superclass, even if there's a default implementation in a super interface
```

>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.5.20: introduce a warning when non-abstract classes that do not override all abstract members are used

> > - 1.7.0: report an error if a super call if fact accesses an abstract member from a super class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.7.0: report an error if a super call, in fact, accesses an abstract member from a superclass
```

> - 1.7.0: report an error if the `-Xjvm-default=all` or `-Xjvm-default=all-compatibility` compatibility modes are enabled;
>   report an error in the progressive mode
> - \>=1.8.0: report an error in all cases

### Prohibit exposing non-public types through public properties declared in a non-public primary constructor

> **Issue**: [KT-28078](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-28078)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin will prevent declaring public properties having non-public types in a private primary constructor.

> > Accessing such properties from another package could lead to an `IllegalAccessError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Accessing such properties from another package could lead to an `IllegalAccessError`
```

>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>

> > - 1.3.20: report a warning on a public property declared in non-public constructor has non-public type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.3.20: report a warning on a public property declared in a non-public constructor that has a non-public type
```

Reviewer: Please check, trying a more detailed explanation

> - \>= 1.7.20: fix the downcast behavior in other affected cases

### Deprecate the `enabled` and the `compatibility` modes of the compiler option -Xjvm-default

> **Issue**: [KT-46329](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-46329)
>
> **Component**: Kotlin/JVM
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.6.20 warns about the usage of `enabled` and `compatibility` modes of the `-Xjvm-default` compiler option
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.20: introduce a warning on the `enabled` and `compatibility` modes of the `-Xjvm-default` compiler option
> - \>= 1.8.0: raise this warning to an error

### Prohibit calls to functions named `suspend` with a trailing lambda

> **Issue**: [KT-22562](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-22562)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.6 no longer allows calling user functions named `suspend` that have the single argument of a functional type passed as a trailing lambda
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.3.0: introduce a warning on such function calls
> - 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error

> > - 1.7.0: introduce changes to the language grammar, so that `suspend` before `{` is parsed as a keyword

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.7.0: introduce changes to the language grammar so that `suspend` before `{` is parsed as a keyword
```

>
> **Component**: kotlin-stdlib
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin deprecates floating-point array functions `contains`, `indexOf`, `lastIndexOf` that compare values using the IEEE-754 order instead of the total order
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.4.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning
> - 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error
> - 1.7.0: hide the deprecated functions from the public API

### Migrate declarations from `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages to `kotlinx.*`

> **Issue**: [KT-39330](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-39330)
>
> **Component**: kotlin-stdlib (JS)
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: declarations from the `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages are moved to the corresponding `kotlinx.*` packages to prepare for extracting them from stdlib
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.4.0: introduce the replacement API in `kotlinx.dom` and `kotlinx.browser` packages
> - 1.4.0: deprecate the API in `kotlin.dom` and `kotlin.browser` packages and propose the new API above as a replacement
> - 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error

> > - \>= 1.8: remove the deprecated functions from stdlib

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - \>= 1.8.0: remove the deprecated functions from stdlib; move the API in kotlinx.* packages to a separate library
```

Author: I believer it should be fine to use >= 1.8 to indicate less certainty in the version that in >= 1.8.0

Reviewer: It's just for the sake of consistency. All other items in the listed deprecation cycles have a full release number
And I don't think it changes the meaning, but it's up to you

Author: Then I'd use >= 1.8 in other places for consistency.

> > - \>= 1.8: move the API in kotlinx.* packages to a separate library

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: These are two independent actions of migration plan, they should not be merged together.

Reviewer: Yeah, I get that they are different. It’s just that every deprecation cycle lists different release periods. Since these two actions happen in the same period, some time after 1.8, we can use one item. As a compromise, we can introduce the the second level for the list.

Author: It can be seen not as a fixed version, but as a some unknown version with that constraint. Since the version is not yet clear, they may get their plan clarified individually. 
I don't see anything wrong in having several list items with the same version if it is done on purpose.

### Deprecate some JS-only API

> **Issue**: [KT-48587](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48587)
>
> **Component**: kotlin-stdlib (JS)
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: a number of JS-only functions in stdlib are deprecated for removal. They include: `String.concat(String)`, `String.match(regex: String)`, `String.matches(regex: String)`, and the `sort` functions on arrays taking a comparison function, for example, `Array<out T>.sort(comparison: (a: T, b: T) -> Int)`
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning
> - 1.8.0: raise the deprecation level to an error
> - 1.9.0: remove the deprecated functions from the public API

## Tools

### Deprecate KotlinGradleSubplugin class

> **Issue**: [KT-48830](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48830)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin` will be removed in Kotlin 1.7. Use `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Short summary**: the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin` will be removed in Kotlin 1.7. Use `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead
```

> - 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error
> - \>= 1.8: remove the deprecated functions from stdlib
> - \>= 1.8: move the API in kotlinx.* packages to a separate library

### Deprecate some JS-only API

> **Issue**: [KT-48587](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48587)
>
> **Component**: kotlin-stdlib (JS)
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: a number of JS-only functions in stdlib are deprecated for removal. They include: `String.concat(String)`, `String.match(regex: String)`, `String.matches(regex: String)`, and the `sort` functions on arrays taking a comparison function, for example, `Array<out T>.sort(comparison: (a: T, b: T) -> Int)`
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.0: deprecate the affected functions with a warning
> - 1.8.0: raise the deprecation level to an error
> - 1.9.0: remove the deprecated functions from the public API

## Tools

### Deprecate KotlinGradleSubplugin class

> **Issue**: [KT-48830](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48830)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin` will be removed in Kotlin 1.7. Use `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Short summary**: the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin` will be removed in Kotlin 1.7. Use the `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead
```

> > **Short summary**: the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin` will be removed in Kotlin 1.7. Use the `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Short summary**: remove the class `KotlinGradleSubplugin`. Use the `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` instead
```

>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error
> - 1.7.0: remove the deprecated class

### Remove useIR compiler option

> **Issue**: [KT-48847](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48847)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: remove the deprecated and hidden `useIR` compiler option
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - 1.6.0: hide the option
> - 1.7.0: remove the deprecated option

### Deprecate kapt.use.worker.api Gradle property

> **Issue**: [KT-48826](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48826)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: deprecate the `kapt.use.worker.api` property that allowed to run kapt via Gradle Workers API (default: true)
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - \>= 1.8.0: remove this property

### Remove kotlin.experimental.coroutines Gradle DSL option and kotlin.coroutines Gradle property

> > **Issue**: [KT-50494/](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-50494)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Issue**: [KT-50494](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-50494)
```

>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: remove the `kotlin.experimental.coroutines` Gradle DSL option and the `kotlin.coroutines` property
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.20: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - 1.7.0: remove the DSL option, its enclosing `experimental` block, and the property

### Deprecate useExperimentalAnnotation compiler option

> **Issue**: [KT-47763](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-47763)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: remove the hidden `useExperimentalAnnotation()` Gradle function used to opt in to using an API in a module.
> `optIn()` function can be used instead
> 
> **Deprecation cycle:**
> 
> - 1.6.0: hide the deprecation option
> - 1.7.0: remove the deprecated option

### Deprecate kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy system property

> **Issue**: [KT-51830](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-51830)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: deprecate the `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` system property used to choose a compiler execution strategy. 

> > The Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` or the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` can be used instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> `use the Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` or the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` instead
```

>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: deprecate the `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` system property used to choose a compiler execution strategy. 
> `use the Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` or the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` instead
>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>
> - 1.7.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - \> 1.7.0: remove the property

### Remove kotlinOptions.jdkHome compiler option

> **Issue**: [KT-46541](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-46541)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: remove the `kotlinOptions.jdkHome` compiler option used to include a custom JDK from the specified location 
> into the classpath instead of the default `JAVA_HOME`. Use [Java toolchains](gradle.md#gradle-java-toolchains-support) instead
>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>
> - 1.5.30: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - \> 1.7.0: remove the option

### Remove noStdlib compiler option

> **Issue**: [KT-49011](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-49011)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: remove the `noStdlib` compiler option. The Gradle plugin uses the `kotlin.stdlib.default.dependency=true` property to control the Kotlin standard library presence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Short summary**: remove the `noStdlib` compiler option. The Gradle plugin uses the `kotlin.stdlib.default.dependency=true` property to control whether the Kotlin standard library is present

>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>

> > - 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning

Author: Note: usually deprecation level is _raised_ when it was a warning and becomes an error. When the warning appears first time, we say that we introduce a warning, report a warning, and so on.

Reviewer 2: Ok, I'll fix in my Tools features

Reviewer 2: Actually, in the previos compatibility guide we used the following wording:
> - 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning

> - 1.5.0: raise the deprecation level to an error

Maybe we should keep in mind your note for future compatibility guides.

### Deprecate the `enabled` and the `compatibility` modes of the compiler option -Xjvm-default

> **Issue**: [KT-46329](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-46329)
>
> **Component**: Kotlin/JVM
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.6.20 warns about the usage of `enabled` and `compatibility` modes of the `-Xjvm-default` compiler option
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.20: introduce a warning on the `enabled` and `compatibility` modes of the `-Xjvm-default` compiler option
> - \>= 1.8.0: raise this warning to an error

### Prohibit calls to functions named `suspend` with a trailing lambda

> **Issue**: [KT-22562](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-22562)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.6 no longer allows calling user functions named `suspend` that have the single argument of a functional type passed as a trailing lambda
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.3.0: introduce a warning on such function calls
> - 1.6.0: raise this warning to an error
> - 1.7.0: introduce changes to the language grammar so that `suspend` before `{` is parsed as a keyword

> ### Prohibit smart cast on base class property if the base class is from another module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prohibit smart cast on a base class property if the base class is from another module
```

> **Issue**: [KT-52629](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-52629)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.7 will no longer allow smart casts on properties declared in another module 

> > that were erroneously allowed before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: The intent here is to show that it was not in all cases of properties in another module, but only in those that were mistakenly allowed

Reviewer: Then we need to specify what kind of cases were incorrectly allowed, because now it doesn't make much sense — "Kotlin will no longer allow smarcasts... that were erroneously allowed before"

>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>

> > - 1.6.0: report a warning on a smart cast of a property declared in the superclass that is in another module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.6.0: report a warning on a smart cast on a property declared in the superclass of another module
```

> - 1.7.0: raise this warning to an error,  
> `-XXLanguage:-ProhibitSmartcastsOnPropertyFromAlienBaseClass` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.7 behavior

### Do not neglect meaningful constraints during type inference

> **Issue**: [KT-52668](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-52668)
>
> **Component**: Core language
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.4–1.6 mistakenly neglected some type constraints during type inference due to an incorrect optimization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Short summary**: Kotlin 1.4—1.6 neglected some type constraints during type inference due to an incorrect optimization.
```

Author: What's wrong with using en-dash for a range? https://www.thepunctuationguide.com/en-dash.html

> It could allow writing unsound code causing `ClassCastException` at runtime.

> > Kotlin 1.7 takes these constraints into account thus prohibiting the unsound code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Kotlin 1.7 takes these constraints into account, thus prohibiting the unsound code
```

>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>

> > - 1.5.20: report a warning if a type mismatch would happen should all the type inference constraints have been taken into account 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.5.20: report a warning when a type mismatch should happen if all the type inference constraints were taken into account
```

Author: reworded differently

> > - 1.7.0: take all the constraints into account thus raising this warning to an error,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - 1.7.0: take all the constraints into account, thus raising this warning to an error,  
```

> > `-XXLanguage:-ProperTypeInferenceConstraintsProcessing` can be used to temporarily revert to the pre-1.7 behavior

Author: Added these two issues, please review them as well

>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: deprecate the `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` system property used to choose a compiler execution strategy. 
> `use the Gradle property `kotlin.compiler.execution.strategy` or the compile task property `compilerExecutionStrategy` instead
>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>
> - 1.7.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - \> 1.7.0: remove the property

### Remove kotlinOptions.jdkHome compiler option

> **Issue**: [KT-46541](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-46541)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: remove the `kotlinOptions.jdkHome` compiler option used to include a custom JDK from the specified location 
> into the classpath instead of the default `JAVA_HOME`. Use [Java toolchains](gradle.md#gradle-java-toolchains-support) instead
>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>
> - 1.5.30: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - \> 1.7.0: remove the option

### Remove noStdlib compiler option

> **Issue**: [KT-49011](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-49011)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: remove the `noStdlib` compiler option. Gradle always resolves the Kotlin standard library and adds it to the compiler classpath

Reviewer 3: > Gradle always resolves the Kotlin standard library and adds it to the compiler classpath

This statement is partially true. By default KGP adds stdlib as a normal dependency, but user could disable it via following gradle property:
```
kotlin.stdlib.default.dependency=false
```

Reviewer 2: Nevertheless, seems like we can leave it as is. Wrote in DM

Reviewer 2: Added the same as to What's new

>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>
> - 1.5.30: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - 1.7.0: remove the option

### Remove kotlin2js and kotlin-dce-plugin plugins

> **Issue**: [KT-48276](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48276)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>

> > **Short summary**: remove the `kotlin2js` and `kotlin-dce-plugin` plugins

Reviewer 3: Probably worth to add what is the proposed replacement?

Reviewer 2: True. Added

>
> **Deprecation cycle:**
>
> - 1.4.0: raise the deprecation level to a warning
> - 1.7.0: remove the plugins

> ### Remove KotlinGradleSubplugin class

Author: Duplicates the first issue in this section

Reviewer 2: Indeed, I'm sorry. Fixed

> **Issue**: [KT-48831](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-48831)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: remove the `KotlinGradleSubplugin` class. Use the `KotlinCompilerPluginSupportPlugin` class instead
>
> **Deprecation cycle**:
>
> - 1.6.0: raise the deprecation level to an error
> - 1.7.0: remove the deprecated class

### Changes in compile tasks

> **Issue**: [KT-32805](https://youtrack.jetbrains.com/issue/KT-32805)
>
> **Component**: Gradle
>
> **Incompatible change type**: source
>
> **Short summary**: Kotlin compile tasks no longer inherit the Gradle `AbstractCompile` task and that's why 
> the `sourceCompatibility` and `targetCompatibility` inputs are no longer available in Kotlin users' scripts. 
> The `SourceTask.stableSources` input is no longer available. The `sourceFilesExtensions` input was removed. 

> > The deprecated `Gradle destinationDir: File` output was replaced with the `destinationDirectory: DirectoryProperty` output

Reviewer 3: Also worth to mention `getClasspath()` and `setClasspath()` methods deprecation:
> All compile tasks are now using `libraries` input for list of compilation required libraries. `KotlinCompile` still has deprecated `setClasspath(FileCollection)` and `getClasspath(): FileCollection` methods.

Reviewer 2: When were these methods deprecated?

Reviewer 3: In KT-32805 :slightly_smiling_face:

I've wrote about it in my summary comment in this issue.

Author: @Tapchicoma isn't there the single deprecated `classpath: FileCollection` property instead?
> KotlinCompile still has deprecated setClasspath(FileCollection) and getClasspath(): FileCollection methods

Reviewer 2: > still has deprecated
doesn't sound as they are deprecared in this release, it looks like they were deprecated some time ago

Reviewer 2: Added in this commit https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin-web-site/pull/2983/commits/e05244ba5e7b5e27b53e4d2d74b1d5d56f8406ed

Author: Still, what's about property `classpath` versus getter and setter methods? I though we provided the deprecated property for Kotlin Gradle DSL users.

Reviewer 2: In What's new we wrote:
> The `KotlinCompile` task still has the deprecated Kotlin property `classpath`, which will be removed in future releases.

@Tapchicoma, should I write it instead of 
> The `setClasspath(FileCollection)` and `getClasspath(): FileCollection` methods are deprecated

?

Reviewer 3: yeah, @ilya-g is right. Should be `classpath` property instead of `setClasspath` and `getClasspath`

Reviewer 2: Fixed in the separate PR https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin-web-site/pull/3005
